add bank balance check endpoint docs (#625)
Dwolla/dev-portal: pages/docs/balance/api-reference/open-banking/retrieve-bank-balance.mdx

---
layout: guides
product: balance
title: "Retrieve bank balance"
guide:
  step: 3
meta:
  title: "Dwolla API Reference | Open Banking: Retrieve bank balance"
  description: "Retrieve bank balances with Dwolla's Open Banking solution"
---

# Retrieve bank balance

This section covers how to retrieve the current and available amount for a bank account added using Dwolla's [Open Banking solution](https://developers.dwolla.com/docs/balance/open-banking). This feature is designed to help businesses make more informed decisions before initiating ACH transactions, reducing the risk of failed payments due to insufficient funds.

#### Available and Closing Balance

> There are two different amounts returned in the API response when retrieving a balance which correspond to a `available` and `closing` balance. Both balances provide important insights for businesses, with the `available` balance being the most relevant for determining whether there are sufficient funds to initiate an ACH transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two different amounts returned in the API response when retrieving a balance which correspond to an `available` and `closing` balance. Both balances provide important insights for businesses, with the `available` balance being the most relevant for determining whether there are sufficient funds to initiate an ACH transaction.
```

##### Available balance

> Available balance is the amount of funds the customer is able to withdraw from the account, not including any credit facility that may be available. The balance includes pending inflows or outflows on the account and is the closest to real-time balance. The account's available balance is immediately updated all day long to reflect all the charges/transactions/deposits as they happen. **Note:** The available balance won't always be returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Available balance is the amount of funds the customer is able to withdraw from the account, not including any credit facility that may be available. This balance includes pending inflows or outflows on the account and is the closest to a real-time balance. It is continuously updated to reflect all the charges/transactions/deposits as they occur. **Note:** The available balance won't always be returned.
```

Reviewer: Minor copy edit suggestion.

        "value": "542.00",
        "currency": "USD"
    },
    "closing": {
        "value": "542.00",
        "currency": "USD"
    },
    "lastUpdated": "2024-09-09T16:39:14.219Z"
}
```

```ruby
# Using dwolla_v2 - https://github.com/Dwolla/dwolla-v2-ruby
funding_source_url = 'https://api-sandbox.dwolla.com/funding-sources/c2eb3f03-1b0e-4d18-a4a2-e552cc111418'

funding_source = app_token.get "#{funding_source_url}/balance"
```

```php
<?php
// Using dwollaswagger - https://github.com/Dwolla/dwolla-swagger-php
$fundingSourceUrl = 'https://api-sandbox.dwolla.com/funding-sources/c2eb3f03-1b0e-4d18-a4a2-e552cc111418';

$fsApi = new DwollaSwagger\FundingsourcesApi($apiClient);

$fundingSource = $fsApi->getBalance($fundingSourceUrl);
?>
```

```python
# Using dwollav2 - https://github.com/Dwolla/dwolla-v2-python
funding_source_url = 'https://api-sandbox.dwolla.com/funding-sources/c2eb3f03-1b0e-4d18-a4a2-e552cc111418'

funding_source = app_token.get('%s/balance' % funding_source_url)
```

```javascript
// Using dwolla-v2 - https://github.com/Dwolla/dwolla-v2-node
var fundingSourceUrl =
  "https://api-sandbox.dwolla.com/funding-sources/c2eb3f03-1b0e-4d18-a4a2-e552cc111418";

> dwolla.get(`${fundingSourceUrl}/balance`).then((res) => res.body.balance.value);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dwolla.get(`${fundingSourceUrl}/balance`).then((res) => res.body.available.value);
```
